Location: 3rd Level Sumanadasa Building,
University of Moratuwa, Katubedda, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka.

Computer Science and Engineering is the discipline that seeks a scientific and engineering foundation from which to pursue a variety of topics, including computer design, computer programming, information processing, computer and data communications, algorithmic solutions of problems, and the algorithmic process itself. Computer and communications technology to a large extent underpins the social, economic, and industrial development of a country. There is a national shortage of computer and communications qualified personal in Sri Lanka. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering aims to remedy this situation by providing a professional degree course in computing, thus building up a pool of skilled professionals to meet the national need.

Introduction
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) of the University of Moratuwa was established in 1985 and is a pioneer in ICT (Information and Communication Technology) education in Sri Lanka. The CSE Department offers a BSc Engineering Honours Degree specialized in Computer Science and Engineering as its flagship academic course. The intake of this program has grown steadily from 16 students in the inaugural batch to 128 per batch, currently with three study streams. The CSE Department currently has about 380 students total in the three batches following a four-year honours program leading to the BSc in Engineering degree. The strong collaboration with the IT industry along with the soft skills and leadership skills developed during the degree program make the graduates of the degree program highly sought after by the industry. It is evidenced by the fact that typically more than 90% of students of a graduating batch receive offers of employment before graduation, and 100% receive offers of employment at graduation.

CSE Mission
The mission of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering is to serve society through excellence in education, research and service. We provide for our students an education in computer science and computer engineering and we attempt to instil in them the attitudes and values that will prepare them for a lifetime of continued learning and leadership. Through research the Department strives to generate new knowledge and technology for the benefit of everyone.

CSE Vision
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering will be the most exciting place in the country and the Asian region to perform high impact research and to learn about the latest developments in the rapidly developing field of computer science and engineering. We will become the best CSE Department by the end of this decade, as measured by: The excellent preparation of our graduates for leadership in the profession,The quality and impact of our research and,The exceptional value of our service to the Nation.

History
Teaching of computing at the University of Moratuwa began in the early 1970s with the teaching of FORTRAN to engineering undergraduates. At this time no computer was available at the University of Moratuwa, but with the kind permission of the State Engineering Corporation (SEC), students were allowed access to the ICL 1903 computer at the SEC.Computing resources of the University of Moratuwa date back to 1973, when the University obtained an IBM 1130 batch processing computer system as part of an ongoing project carried out by UNESCO. This computer was installed and managed under the direction of Prof. S Karunaratne, Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering. This was used by the University until 1983, in which year the University aquired more modern interactive computers. In 1983 , the then President, His Excellency Mr. J.R Jayawardene, realizing the advantages of Information Technology for national socio- economic development, took steps to formulate a National Computer Policy. The policy study was undertaken by two prominent Sri lankans, Dr. R.P Jayawardene, the then Director-Genral of NARESA and Dr. Mohan Munasinghe, later Chairman of CINTEC, with the cooperation of acdemics and professionals.