Location: 1st & 2nd Levels Sumanadasa Building,
University of Moratuwa, Katubedda, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka.
Tel: +94 11 2650301 Ext:3200, Fax: +94 11 2650622

Electrical Engineering is a branch of engineering dealing primarily with electricity and magnetism and devoted to utilization of materials and forces of nature for the benifit of mankind. The development of electrical engineering is closely related to the material prosperity experienced in industrialized countries. The introduction and development of electrical power is in fact essential to any country seeking to advance its standard of living.
The core activity in electrical engineering and technology is dealing with utilisation of electrical energy and its generation, transmission and distribution.

The present Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering is Prof. A.G.B.P. Jayasekara.

Emeritus Professor S. Karunaratne who was its head for over twenty five years, Professor Lucas who was the head for over six years and the rest of the electrical engineering staff have taken much care and interest in the planning and development of the department. Presently the senior staff assist the head of department with its administration by being co-ordinators in various areas. The Head is assisted in the secretarial work by the clerk Mrs Niroshini.

Emeritus Professor Karunaratne joined the department as its first Professor in 1969 and retired in 2002. Professor Lucas joined the department as a lecturer in 1970 and rose to be the second Professor in the Department. Professor Lucas is also the head of its division of Power Systems and High Voltage Engineering. The other full Professor in the Department is Professor Wijetunga who is the first product of Moratuwa to reach the rank of Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department.

The department and its divisions are housed at Level 1 and Level 2 of the Dr. L.H. Sumanadasa building.

The Department of Electrical Engineering conducts regular classes at different levels - viz. postgraduate, undergraduate and technician diploma (being gradually phased out, with the transfer of the responsibilities to the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa (ITUM)). The number of students taken annually for the electrical engineering stream are around hundred for postgraduate and seventy for undergraduate. At times, it also conducts short courses for continuing education of practising engineers. Details about these short-courses and post- graduate program are advertised in the local press. The senior staff members in addition to their own research activities are also actively engaged in consultancy services to various electrical industries and utilities.

The laboratory facilities in the department consists of Electrical Measurement Laboratory, Power Systems Laboratory, Electrical Machines Laboratory, Controlled Drives Laboratory, Nuclear Measurements Laboratory, High Voltage Laboratory, Computer Systems Laboratory and Wiring Diagram and Electrical Construction Laboratory. The students carry out experiments, in groups of not more than four, under the guidance of an instructor. Final year undergraduate students in additon to their laboratory coursework in the subjects they offer are required to carry out a group project and submit a dissertion on it. Every final year student is also required to give one or more seminars on selected topics related to Electrical Engineering. The choice will certainly depend on qualifications and personal preferences. One may choose fundamental or applied research, planning, design and development, estimating, commissioning, inspection and testing, operation and maintenance or manufacture. Apart from the technological side of electrical engineering, opportunities exist in commercial applications such as sales and contracts which require technical activity coupled with business acumen.

The department computer services consist of about seventy personal computers and one Server. The Local Area Network links most of the laboratories and staff rooms and has internet facility through the campus/LEARN network.